---
layout: vanilla
title: lab-culture
---

During the academic year, XPMethod team meets every Friday afternoon-- from
3pm to 5pm-- at StudioButler (208-B Butler Library). This is an openLab and
everyone is welcome to attend, regardless of their participation in our
research project. To facilitate our gathering, we would like to maintain a
conscious and engaged environment in the lab, sensitive to the dynamics of
power---gender, sexuality, class, race---particularly as they manifest in
spatial and temporal imbalances of participation.

### Modalities of Engagement

With this goal in mind, we actively promote the following practices:

1. Architectures of power---be mindful of the room's physical arrangement. At
the beginning of lab, long tables should be broken down into smaller islands
of activity. Locations of power, such as the lectern or the center of the
room, should be systematically ceded and inverted.

2. Economy of attention---think carefully of other people's time. Yield the
floor and delegate authority. Come to definite conclusions that let people
know that you are done. Conversations should move to various islands.
Structure and preparation is a sign of respect for your audience. Ask
questions. Listen more than you speak.

3. Polyglossia---help bring a multiplicity of voices into the space. Allowing
other voices to be heard means also moderating one's own. Be aware of the
strength and the reach of your voice. Soliloquies should be punctured by
moments of quietude and reflection, giving time and space to those hesitant to
join in the discussion. Watch for cues of others trying to speak but being
interrupted or denied the opportunity.

4. Peer Learning---avoid long explanations and pontificating. We want to
facilitate peer learning. Allow others the opportunity to figure it out on
their own.

5. Ethics of shared labor---make labor visible. Keep a manifest of project
work done, to the extent possible.  Be aware of credit hierarchies. Prioritize
the exposure of junior colleagues. In public, credit the involved collectives
and encourage others to read through the records carefully for granular
attribution.

### Electronic Frontier Alliance

In addition to these principles, we are a member of [Electronic Frontier
Alliance][1], a grassroots network of community and campus organizations that
advocate for free expression online: security, privacy, creativity, and access
to knowledge.

[1]: https://www.eff.org/electronic-frontier-alliance

<sub>*Last edited on {{ site.time | date: '%d/%m/%y' }}. Change log
[here](https://github.com/xpmethod/xpmethod.github.io/commits/master/lab-culture.md)*.</sub>



