---
layout: strain
title: knowledge-design-studio
category: projects
---

<!-- A 75-100 word paragraph describing the motivation behind these projects -->

More than half of the world's population accesses the internet through a
mobile phone. Yet, much of academic practice in digital humanities and
computational social sciences is aimed at bandwidth-heavy, visually
complicated, high-performance vision of knowledge production. Inspired by
principles of **minimal computing**, we would like to experiment---study,
imagine, build---**knowledge architectures** that answer to humanistic ideals:
local, contextually aware, historically rich, universally accessible,
hackable, sustainable, empowered, fair, and just. Projects in this research
cluster engage in the critical examination of ideas at the core of
deliberative democracy: freedom of speech, participatory culture, and
collective memory formation. These theoretical concerns manifest in the
applied mechanisms of governance and citizenship, contesting, in practice, our
commitment to the politics of privacy or surveillance, secrecy or
transparency, preservation (as in the duty to remember) or entropy (as in, the
right to be forgotten). Our proximity to the worlds of journalism, library
science, and publishing gives us an opportunity to affect meaningful change in
redressing inequalities of access, to envision the **future of books and
literacy**, and to experiment with new modalities of human--computer
interaction. Moderated by [Alex Gil][ag] and [Jeremiah Christensen][jc], Butler
Library (Columbia University).

[ag]: http://www.elotroalex.com/profile/
[jc]: https://library.columbia.edu/services/research-data-services/staff.html

